# PyBer_Analysis
## Challenge
The Challenge (In:597-710) V. Isualize gave me was to get in to even more detail with the information in the csv files concerning technical analysis deliverables. The first deliverable was to create a summary DataFrame consisting of many different factors: Total Rides, Total Drivers, Total Fares, Average Fare Per Ride, and Average Fare per Driver. They wanted me to implement that information into a DataFrame with Urban, Suburban, and Rural Cities as indexes shwoing the discrepancy among the three when it came to the numbers. The second deliverable was creating a multiple-line plot showing the sum of the fares for each city type. I analyzed this data utilizing the functions of groupby() and creating different dataframes in order to make this information more concise. As the line graph shows, the Urban fares were far higher than those of Suburban and Rural fares. The Urban fares started in Janurary at around the 1650-ish mark and rose steadily all the way up to 2450-ish by mid -February. March showed the fares go from 2400 to the 1900's and seemed to be a very volatile month. April the line steadied at around 2250 to end. The Suburban fares (according to the line graph) saw the month fares start at around 750 then rise up to 1250-ish then back down to around 1050 to end the month of January. In February, the fares rose up to around 1400 but then had a sharp decline to settle at around 800 at the end. In March, the line hovered above and below the 1000 mark and in April the fares shot up to around 1350. Concerning the Rural fares, the fares hovered from 200 to 300 the entire three months until April when it shot up to 500 but steadily fell ending at around 200.

Many challenges and difficulties were overcome in this module challenge. Whether it was finding the correct dataframes to use or the correct functions (and even what the functions meant and how they were used), everything seemed like a step in the wrong direction. It was through trial and error experimenting with the groupby() function, loc() function, creating the pivot table (which I had not done before on matplotlib), and setting the indexes that I was able to finally understand how each one was used. I was able to overcome the learning curve of the groupby() function by making smaller groupby function codes and then gradually making longer and longer ones until I mastered it. For the loc function, I had difficulty locating the correct dates needed to plot the multiple line plot but was finally able to work around to fix it using he exact data from under the Date Index. Making the pivot table was not hard, it was a matter of finding which function created the pivot table which was (table = pd.pivot_table(new_fares_data, values='Fare', index=['Date'], columns=['City Type'], aggfunc=np.sum). This one I found the aggfunc=np.sum on stackoverflow and was able to use it correctly. Setting the indexes were easy once I was able to find everythign I needed for them. All in all, the challenges were faced head on and I was able to complete it.

Concerning advice I would give to the CEO of V.Isualize, the first thing I would tell him is to lower the price of Rural rides as the average price was $34.62 per ride and more expensive than the Urban and Suburban Cities. People in rural areas are typically not as wealthy as those in cities so lowering the fares could help the economy in Rural America grow. I could also do analyses on the information to see what the average time of each ride would be and how it would affect the price per mile in the different Urban, Suburban, and Rural areas. I would first check to see if the Rural areas were getting hit with higher prices due to the much more spread out environment typically seen in Rural America, then I would compare that with the Urban and Suburban prices per mile and see the discrepancies between them. Of Course, it does not sho the distance in the two csv files, so I would go directly to the CEO and ask him for this information so I could delve into that analysis. I could also perform a bar or pie graph with the new information I gathered to show the audience of this data analysis different ways to present the data so they could see it even better. Sometimes, people would like to see a pie or bar graph over a line graph, especially if the line graph gets too cramped and hard to read.
